[Concepts]: Classes (#372)
exercism/crystal: concepts/classes/about.md

# classes

Classes are a centric concept in [object-oriented programming][object-oriented-programming].
[In Crystal so is everything an object][everything-is-an-object], and every object has a type, and it can respond to some methods.
Classes are blueprints to create objects, providing initial values for state, like variables, and implementations of behavior, like methods.
When creating an object from a class, the object is an instance of that class, the instance holds all the instance variables and states.

## Class definition

A class is defined using the `class` keyword, followed by the name of the class written in `UpperCamelCase`.

```crystal
class Account
end
```

## Creating an instance

To [create an instance of a class][new-initialize], you call the class name with the `new` method.

```crystal
class Account
end

account = Account.new
```

> In the example above so is the variable `account` is an instance of the class `Account`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example above the variable `account` is an instance of the class `Account`.
```

> When creating an instance, there is a special method called `initialize` that is a constructor, it is called when an instance is created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating an instance, there is a special method called `initialize` that is a constructor.
It is called when an instance is created.
```

The constructor allows you to set the initial state of the instance.
The `initialize` method can take arguments, which are passed when creating an instance.

```crystal
class Account
  def initialize(number)

>     p 5 + number

Reviewer: What is p?

Author: In Ruby and swift they like short print statements so they use p, I think I explained that in an earlier concept.

Reviewer 2: This "they use `p`" in Ruby is not true for the purpose of  "short print statements".  Reach out to me if you would like more of an explanation. But `p` is a debugging tool, not a shortcut for `puts` or `print` in Ruby.

Author: Short I mean that the method names use few letters not that they are a shortcut for another method.

"Ruby and Crystal they like short print statements so they use p"

What I meant in the line above is that they could equally have named it: inspect_print (or something longer than just p), but as far as I guess they chose p since it was short.

 p as you said is meant for debugging since it shows more "raw" data.

```crystal
class Account
  def initialize(number)
    5 + number
  end
end

Account.new(4)
# => #<Account:0x7f5dc33dcea0>
````

## Instance methods

An instance method is a method that is available to an instance of a class.
And can be called on an instance of a class.
Instance methods are defined using the `def` keyword, followed by the name of the method and they need to be defined inside the class definition.

```crystal
class Account
  def balance
    100
  end
end
```

## Instance variables

[Instance variables][instance-variable] are variables that are available in all methods of the instance.
They can be initialized in the `initialize` method.
They are defined using the `@` prefix.

```crystal
class Account
  def initialize
    @balance = 100
  end

  def balance
    @balance
  end
end

account = Account.new
account.balance
# => 100
```

It is possible to create instance variables without declaring them in the `initialize` method.

```crystal
class Account
  @age = 0
end
```

### Instance variables with initialization

Instance variables can be initialized with an argument passed to the `initialize` method.

> Although since Crystal can't infer the type of an argument under initialization, so does it needs to be specified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since Crystal can't infer the type of an argument during initialization, it needs to be specified.
```

To specify the type of the variable you can use the `:` symbol, followed by the type.
For example, if you want to create an instance variable called `balance` that is an `Int32`, you can do the following: `@balance : Int32`.
Or if you want to create an instance variable called `raining` that is a `Bool`, you can do the following: `@raining : Bool`.

There are a few ways to implement this, either by in the `initialize` method declaring the argument with the type, and then assigning the instance variable to the argument, like the following example:

```crystal
class Account
  def initialize(balance : Int32)
    @balance = balance
  end

  def balance
    @balance
  end
end

account = Account.new(1)
account_2 = Account.new(5)

account.number
# => 1

account_2.number
# => 5
```

Another way is to declare the instance variable type in the class definition when you have to do: `@<variable> : <Type>`, like the following example:

```crystal
class Weather

  @raining : Bool

  def initialize(raining)
    @raining = raining
  end

  def raining
    @raining
  end
end

weather = Weather.new(true)
weather.raining
# => true
```

> ### Shorthand for initialize instance variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Shorthand to initialize instance variables
```

Classes are blueprints to create objects, providing initial values for state, like variables, and implementations of behavior, like methods.
When creating an object from a class, the object is an instance of that class, the instance holds all the instance variables and states.

## Class definition

A class is defined using the `class` keyword, followed by the name of the class written in `UpperCamelCase`.

```crystal
class Account
end
```

## Creating an instance

To [create an instance of a class][new-initialize], you call the class name with the `new` method.

```crystal
class Account
end

account = Account.new
```

In the example above the variable `account` is an instance of the class `Account`.

When creating an instance, there is a special method called `initialize` that is a constructor.
It is called when an instance is created.
The constructor allows you to set the initial state of the instance.
The `initialize` method can take arguments, which are passed when creating an instance.

```crystal
class Account
  def initialize(number)
    p 5 + number
  end
end

> Account.new(4)
> # => 9

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

```

````exercism/note
The `initialize` method cant return a value, instead, when calling new the instance is returned.

```crystal
class Account
  def initialize(number)
    5 + number
  end
end

Account.new(4)
# => #<Account:0x7f5dc33dcea0>
````

## Instance methods

An instance method is a method that is available to an instance of a class.
And can be called on an instance of a class.
Instance methods are defined using the `def` keyword, followed by the name of the method and they need to be defined inside the class definition.

```crystal
class Account
  def balance
    100
  end

> end

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
end

account = Account.new
account.balance # => 100
```

```

## Instance variables

[Instance variables][instance-variable] are variables that are available in all methods of the instance.
They can be initialized in the `initialize` method.

> They are defined using the `@` prefix.

Reviewer 3: It might be worth noting that you typically can't access instance variables by default, you must define a method which exposes the instance variable.

```crystal
class Account
  def initialize
    @balance = 100
  end

  def balance
    @balance
  end
end

account = Account.new
account.balance
# => 100
```

> It is possible to create instance variables without declaring them in the `initialize` method.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is possible to create instance variables without declaring them in the `initialize` method by specifying a default value for it.
```

Classes are blueprints to create objects, providing initial values for state, like variables, and implementations of behavior, like methods.
Objects are an instance of a class, that hold all the instance variables and states.

## Class definition

A class is defined using the `class` keyword, followed by the name of the class written in `UpperCamelCase`.

```crystal
class Account
end
```

## Creating an instance

To [create an instance of a class][new-initialize], you call the class name with the `new` method.

```crystal
class Account
end

account = Account.new
```

In the example above the variable `account` is an instance of the class `Account`.

When creating an instance, there is a special method called `initialize` that acts as a constructor.
It is called when an instance is created.
The constructor allows you to set the initial state of the instance.
The `initialize` method can take arguments, which are passed when creating an instance.

```crystal
class Account
  def initialize(number)
    5 + number # => 9
  end
end

Account.new(4)
```

````exercism/note

> The `initialize` method cannot manually return a value, instead, it returns the newly created instance.

Reviewer 4: This is technically not accurate, but I'm not sure how to reword to make it true but not confusing for new learners. Maybe:

```suggestion
The `initialize` method cannot manually return a value, instead, `new` returns the newly created instance.
```

```crystal
class Account
  def initialize(number)
    5 + number
  end
end

Account.new(4)
# => #<Account:0x7f5dc33dcea0>
```
````

## Instance methods

> An instance method is a method that is available to an instance of a class.
> And can be called on that instance.

Reviewer 4: Second sentence is a sentence fragment.  Perhaps:
```suggestion
An instance method is a method that is available to an instance of a class, and can be called on that instance.
```
